Appanage

## Business problem

At Code Your Future, we build loads and loads of team projects. We
invent products, build apps and solve problems together. We use many
products built by CYFers: the
[Dashboard](https://dashboard.codeyourfuture.io/),
[Classplanner](https://classplanner.codeyourfuture.io/),
the [Curricula](https://curriculum.codeyourfuture.io/),
[Signposts](https://signposts.codeyourfuture.io/),
Rainbird, and many more were all built in-house and some as \"final\"
projects.

We have a great time and learn a lot, but good work is often lost
because nobody maintains the product after the build is done. We still
need a working attendance system, even though we\'ve built several, and
everyone wants one.

It should go like this:

### **💡Idea** ➡ 🧪**CYF Labs** ➡ 🎁**CYF Products**

Experimental products implicitly belong to CYF Labs. Once they have been
trialled and proven, they can be proposed to CYF Products, and if
there\'s a team and a solid use case, they will be accepted.

But most CYFers don\'t know this. So, how can CYF volunteers **discover
and adopt** products CYF needs?

### Proposed functionality

- A way to **produce** listings of available products

  - What [schema](https://schema.org/) will you use or
    define to describe available repositories?

  - What information do CYFers need to understand how to adopt a
    build?

- A way to **organise** participation

  - How will people sign up to adopt a build?

  - All these products should be **Open Source**; how will you also
    open up contributions from the broader FOSS community?

  - How will you empower CYFers to support specific products they
    want?

What is the **simplest** thing that can possibly work?

These product listings should be stored in a database and displayed by a
front end which scores 100 for Accessibility on Lighthouse. You should
produce a public unauthenticated API.

## Users and roles

**As a trainee**, I want to develop my skills to help me get on to a CYF
Products team when I\'m ready

**As a developer**, I want to sign up to build things for real users to
keep me motivated in my coding

**As a mentor**, I want to scan open listings and get a sense of the
current builds and what I can help with

**As a staff member**, I want everyone to feel empowered to participate
in the universe of CYF Products so I don\'t personally die of exhaustion
trying to organise it all

## Stretch goals

- **Slack feed**

  - Should new products be posted to Slack? Will you create a
    [webhook](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks)?

- **Product space similarity vector**

  - There are often multiple takes on the same problem. Can you
    group products by similarity?

### Things to consider:

Why _aren\'t_ products adopted? There are many reasons, and not all of
them can be solved. What happens in between the build and take-up?
Understanding this gap will help you build something that can bridge it.

Is it desirable for _every_ product to be adopted? Why or why not?

How can the Change Board help you?
[https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/Changes](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/Changes)

#### Useful links

> [https://docs.codeyourfuture.io/trainees/cyf-products](https://docs.codeyourfuture.io/trainees/cyf-products)
>
> [https://www.gov.uk/guidance/the-technology-code-of-practice](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/the-technology-code-of-practice)
